Document CLPDECODE. (#236)
pinot-contrib/pinot-docs: configuration-reference/functions/clpdecode.md

---
description: This section contains reference documentation for the CLPDECODE function.
---

# CLPDECODE

Reconstructs (decodes) the value of a CLP-encoded field from its component columns.

The [CLPLogMessageDecoder](../../basics/data-import/clp.md) can encode fields into a set of three columns:

* `<field>_logtype`
* `<field>_dictionaryVars`
* `<field>_encodedVars`

where `<field>` is the field's name before encoding. We refer to such a set of columns as a column group.

## Signatures

> CLPDECODE(colGroupName)
> 
> CLPDECODE(colGroupName, defaultValue)
> 
> CLPDECODE(colGroupName_logtype, colGroupName_dictionaryVars, colGroupName_encodedVars)
> 
> CLPDECODE(colGroupName_logtype, colGroupName_dictionaryVars, colGroupName_encodedVars, defaultValue)

> * The syntax allows you to specify just the name of a column group or all columns within the column group. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The syntax lets you specify the name of a column group or all columns within the column group. 
```

> * `defaultValue` is optional and is used when a column group can't be decoded for some reason (e.g., it's null).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `defaultValue` is optional and used when a column group can't be decoded for some reason (e.g., it's null).
```

## Usage Examples

> Consider a record that contains a "message" field with this value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider a record that contains a "message" field with the following value:
```

> INFO Task task_12 assigned to container: [ContainerID:container_15], operation took 0.335 seconds. 8 tasks remaining.

> [CLPLogMessageDecoder](../../basics/data-import/clp.md) will encode it into 3 columns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[CLPLogMessageDecoder](../../basics/data-import/clp.md) encodes this information into 3 columns:
```
